There's a common saying at Bethel that the only thing that is constant is change.
But frankly, that's an understatement now, wouldn't you say?
In fact, wherever you turn, it seems like at every occasion we see change coming about in one way or another.
In fact, when I first submitted this outline and think back to that day, it has changed so much just in that few months,
it really shows we are in a time of great change.
Of course, we're in an organization that's built on change.
We're in an organization that as far back as Brother Russell was willing to study God's Word and see where perhaps his belief did not align with what God's Word said and he changed.
And from that day forward, our organization has continued to change and aren't we glad?
The faithful and discrete slave continues to make adjustments where necessary for the sake of the preaching work, for the sake of Jehovah's name, and of course for his people, his sheep.
So when we think about that, we think it changes not always bad.
Now, all changes not profound either.
We've had many changes right here in Bethel in the last few years, changes that have benefited us as well.
Perhaps maybe it's having all our Saturdays off so we can enjoy field service with a congregation and more regularly.
Perhaps it's an extra day off when we turn 70.
So again, personal matters can be attended to field service can be enjoyed more fully by these.
What a blessing even to have morning worship and our watch to our study in our room when we're sick.
These are nice changes. We can just go on and on about the things that we enjoy in changes.
But sometimes, sometimes in our life, changes come about that maybe well, they cut a little deeper into our comfort zone.
Isn't that true?
So maybe it can cause us a measure of personal anxiety, maybe it's fear of the unknown, or maybe it's just the feeling that I don't have as much control in my life anymore because of this change that's come about.
And so there is some anxiety that goes with that.
In fact, whatever the case, if we allow ourselves to become too anxious, the truth of Proverbs 12, 25 comes about where it says,
anxiety and a man's heart weighs it down.
And so it can actually prevent us from moving forward.
It can prevent us or it can slow us down sometimes if we become overwhelmed with anxious feelings about what's going on around me.
How am I being affected?
We use the example in the theme to talk about those sailors on a sailing ship.
Why?
Well, because for a sailor, while at sea, it may seem that he's at the mercy of the elements, and it's true he cannot control the weather.
But he can adjust to the weather.
An experienced sailor is able to keep control.
He's able to stay on course by adjusting his sails by continuing to move forward by catching the wind from different angles and allowing himself.
To keep making progress.
Even though at first bad weather can slow you down.
In fact, for a ship to keep moving, it has to have the winds catching the sails.
And if you've ever seen a racing team that has raised these large sailing ships, it's amazing how they can maneuver them, how they can turn them, how fast they can go.
Because they're experienced.
Well, in some ways, we think we may not have complete control over our life at Bethel.
That's true.
We don't.
We do have changing circumstances.
But we also can keep control of our life.
Why?
Why can we say that?
Well, turn with me to our first scripture in the 46th Psalm in Psalm 46.
Notice what it says in the very first three verses.
It says, God is God is our refuge and strength.
A help that is readily found in times of distress.
That is why we will not fear though the earth undergoes change, though the mountains topple into the depths of the sea, though the waters roar and form over, though the mountains rock on account of its turbulence.
Of course, these are some pretty extreme circumstances.
I'm in no way saying that's Bethel.
But if we think about the amount of change, the entire earth is portrayed here is going undergoing some massive changes.
Mountains falling into the sea, violent oceans.
And yet the psalmist said he didn't have to worry.
He was in control.
He had no fear.
Why?
Because verse one, God is our refuge and strength.
A help readily found in times of distress.
That is why I will not fear.
And the psalmist did not fear because of that.
Jehovah is our strength.
He is our refuge and his stability.
The fact that he can never be shaken in his stability.
It grounds us.
It means as long as we stick close to Jehovah,
then nothing is going to put us completely off balance.
And if it does for a short period of time,
if we experience a little bit of rough seas,
well, we adjust.
Why?
Because we have Jehovah and he helps us do that.
In our discussion tonight, we're going to consider three significant changes that some have already happened.
Some are affecting our family even now.
And others will likely affect us more even into the future.
We're also going to give attention to three Bible accounts
that will help us to see Jehovah's unchanging love for us
and his ability to help us ride through any storm.
The first has to do with a change of location.
Now, of course, I think back to January 6th, 2015,
and it seems like a long time ago.
It is in Bethel time, it seems.
It was a normal day at Bethel.
You made your way down to the dining room
for some cheese and chive egg white omelette a little musely.
Then came that historic Bethel announcement
from the governing body.
It adjusted what departments would be transferring to walk hell.
You remember now not the computer department,
not regional design construction,
but now the service department
and the branch committee office would be relocating to walk hell.
So think about that.
How many people's lives changed
with just a few sentences
and a few minutes at morning worship.
Of course, the regional design construction department
would then be moving to Puerto Rico.
Who would have thought of that?
Do you see that one coming?
Change can happen quickly.
But of course, as a result of that announcement,
just beginning next month,
some 400 members of our family
from Patterson and Brooklyn will be moving to walk hell
in the beginning of large changes for all of us.
And as big as that was,
it does seem like a long time ago.
Just when you were coming to grips with that,
then September rolled around
and you came down to breakfast.
Yes, they served musely again.
But the announcement given to the Bethel family
that they discussed additional changes to the organization.
It included a significant reduction
to Bethel families around the world
and an emphasis, a re-emphasis to the preaching work
and the assistance that could be given
to that preaching work through this change.
For the United States Bethel family,
we learned that we would not retain the tunnel complex
as had been previously planned.
Instead, all property in Brooklyn will be sold
and any remaining departments would have to fit
within the property's upstate.
So more movement.
And that's already according to our recent update,
our already beginning.
And we're seeing signs of that around, aren't we?
So of course, for many of us,
what that meant was family worship
took a little detour that week.
We had to go home and talk about some of these things
because our families got affected by these changes.
Of course, individually and as a family,
we do loyally comply with any direction.
The organization has reasons for making adjustments
and we understand that and so we want to be cooperative.
But for many, it does mean a big change
maybe leaving a complex that has been the one
they've served at forever since they've been in Bethel.
Maybe it's some where they've become very close to
not just friends there, but in the congregation
that they've served in for many, many years.
Or consider others perhaps who have relocated
their aging parents into the area of the complex
they've been serving in.
Now, can they move them again?
Are their parents well enough to even be moved?
These are real situations and we understand
that of course they could give us a measure of anxiety
that can make us seem a little bit concerned
or maybe even overwhelm sometimes.
But how can we be helped?
What can we do so that we can move on?
What are some ways?
Obviously we can't change a decision.
That's not our position and we don't want to.
We want to be cooperative with what's being done.
So we're looking for ways to do that.
Well, look at what the psalm has said.
David's words in the 40th psalm.
In the 40th psalm, notice what David says
the confidence he has in verse five.
It says, how many things you have done,
O Jehovah, my God?
Your wonderful works and your thoughts toward us
none can compare to you.
If I were to try to tell and speak of them,
they would be too numerous to recount.
So maybe it's time to personally take stock.
Personally recount the saving acts
that Jehovah has done toward us personally.
Here at Bethel in our family.
Perhaps, perhaps did he take you by the hand
when you were nervous about coming into Bethel
for the first day?
Maybe he helped care for you
when you were a new bride trying to adjust to a new city,
new congregation, marriage,
and of course a new job, a new work.
You would do a Bethel.
Can you recall when you were feeling low
when he sent not just the right person
but the right person at the right time
with just the right words
to help kick you back into play a little bit
and maybe even protect you
from making a mistake about leaving
your Bethel service some time ago.
All of us probably can recount over and over again
things that Jehovah has done to show his love toward us
and his care for us, even as David was confident.
But the question is, do you think he can do it again?
He had a beautiful watch charge
just now that talked about faith.
And so we think about that.
Do we have that faith that he will do it again?
Isaiah 591 says Jehovah's hand will not be short.
There is nothing that cannot be accomplished
for those who are faithful to Jehovah.
So we can put, we can recount it.
It may be that we need to even write it down
and it may need to be that we pray about these things
so that we say, yes, I see how Jehovah
has really taken care of me.
Now for others, another group that's affected
by that same announcement is maybe they're having
a little anxiety over not moving to another complex.
Maybe they had their hopes set on where they were going
and they were looking forward to it.
Of course, as all were necessarily
because they adjust themselves, they think,
okay, I'm ready.
Well, now I'm not going.
And it may be that the tendency would be to say,
well, why not me?
Let's see, my department's going,
my works is going, my friends are going,
what did I do something wrong?
And yet really, that's not the case.
But circumstances and decisions have to be made.
And so now we find ourselves,
we have to examine ourselves, how am I going to react
to those type of feelings that come up within myself?
Proverbs 13 verse 12 says,
expectation postponed makes the heart sick.
But the footnote to that scripture says,
where it says expectation, it says hope.
And so it could be that our hopes,
our expectations are not realized
and can take a toll on us.
It's natural.
But the question is, will we allow it,
our emotions to override our clear thinking?
Will we allow it to blow us off course, so to speak,
or slow us down, or even maybe change our direction
for a while that, well, we just don't seem to be
heading in the same direction we thought we were.
We're not making as much progress as we once were.
To stay positive, to stay level headed, to stay on course,
requires sometimes that we give a little change
to our thinking, especially if the circumstances
aren't going to change.
It is easy to compare ourselves with others,
but it's not healthy.
In Galatians 64 tells us not to compare,
it says don't compare ourselves,
or our work with our fellow workers
in the truth or in the congregation.
So what can we done?
Well, we'd like to look at our first scriptural account
that really helps us to see the need to avoid comparing.
It has to do with the, with Jesus' selection
of the 12 apostles.
Think of what it meant to be with Jesus
at that time when he was on earth,
getting to know him, working, learning from him personally,
listening to him maybe day after day,
for some, what a privilege.
They got to do it for three and a half years.
We would trade a lot of time,
even to spend just a little bit of time
learning from Jesus directly like that, wouldn't we?
Well, undoubtedly, there were many who wanted the privilege
of being one of Jesus' closest disciples and apostles,
but the time came that only 12 were chosen.
We know there were many to choose from.
Look at what it says and acts the first chapter in Acts 1.
Notice when they were going to replace Judas,
who they chose from.
So after Jesus had died and ascended to heaven,
verse 21, it says this and acts the first chapter
or after Jesus had died, it says this,
it is therefore necessary that of the men
who accompanied us in verse 21,
during all the time in which the Lord Jesus carried
on his activities among us,
starting with his baptism by John until the day
he was taken up from us,
one of these men should become a witness
with us of his resurrection.
So there were many followers.
They knew who they were and they were able to select from them.
So imagine what it was a year and a half
into Jesus' ministry after his baptism.
It was time to select the 12.
This is what Mark 13 says in that account.
Mark the third chapter, sorry.
In Mark 3, notice what it says in verse 13.
It says of Jesus, he ascended a mountain
and some in those whom he wanted and they came to him.
And he formed a group of 12 whom he also named apostles,
those who were to accompany him
and whom he would send out to preach
and to have authority to expel demons.
So Jesus selected from those.
Luke's account says he prayed all night about it first
and then he came down and then from the proud of his disciples
he selected those 12 men.
Now, picture yourself there.
What if you were one of the men who
loyally stuck by Jesus since his baptism?
Maybe like Andrew and John and Peter and James,
you were an instantaneous believer too.
You left everything and you followed him immediately.
You believed and you left all things behind.
But Jesus didn't select you as one of his 12.
How would you feel slighted, wronged?
Maybe that some injustice had been done?
Would you begin to discount those who were selected?
No, of course not.
You would think, okay, I'm not going to be one of those 12,
but what are the blessings I do get to enjoy?
What were the blessings these men would still be able
to enjoy and apparently from Acts?
Those men remained with Jesus.
Those followers, those disciples stuck close to him as well.
Well, they still got to listen to him, teach and preach.
They still, if just a few days later really would be able
to hear that famous sermon on the Mount
if they had stayed right with him.
They were still entrusted with the privilege of the ministry.
In fact, Jesus sent the disciples out the 12
and then later sent 70 to preach.
So many others enjoyed that blessing as well.
They could help others to find the Messiah
and they still had the hope for the same reward
that those 12 apostles were going to have
being anointed and being able to be in heaven
with Jesus after their resurrection.
So what's the lesson?
Well, rather than feeling passed over for something
maybe for the type of assignment
or even the location of an assignment,
we think about we adjust.
What do I have?
What are things I can enjoy?
We devote ourselves, our time, our energy
and all our mental resources to fulfilling our ministry.
What we've been given to do,
whether it's our work here at Bethel or in the field,
things we can control.
Because what's the option?
Lower our sails.
Just start floating aimlessly.
None of us want to do that.
That's not why we came to Bethel in the first place.
It's also would be a very dangerous thing to do.
So we avoid that.
Instead, we stay focused on what's most important.
Turn with me to the book of 2 Corinthians,
2 Corinthians and the 4th chapter.
Notice what it says after talking about
the tribulation in verse 17,
that's momentary in life and light and going to pass.
Notice what it says though in verse 18.
While we keep our eyes not on the things seen
but on the things unseen.
For the things seen are temporary,
but the things unseen are everlasting.
What's the lesson for us?
Everything in this system except our relationship
with Jehovah is temporary.
Our work assignments, likely temporary.
Our work locations, temporary.
Locations we live, probably temporary too.
What doesn't change is our loyalty,
our devotion and integrity to Jehovah.
That's what lasts.
And that's why Jehovah promises in Psalm 8411.
He will not hold back anything for good
from those walking in integrity.
You notice it didn't require a location or a job assignment.
Psalm 1825 says with someone loyal you
or Jehovah act in loyalty.
That's Jehovah's promise to all of us.
There's another group affected by those couple
of announcements and that's our wives.
Now our wives are often impacted in greater ways
than even we are by some of these changes.
Most of our dear wives pretty much they're going to move
if they're husbands moving.
Now stop and think about that.
How could it make you feel?
What if they're moved to another complex means
losing the job that they love?
Maybe they're even good at it, right?
You know what that's like?
Or even leaving those that they are enjoying working with.
But now they're separating.
I know for our office, our Bethel office in Brooklyn,
we're splitting into many different directions and going.
So we're feeling very personally that movement
of members of our very close family of office mates
that we'll be moving to.
But for our wives,
they don't even, some of them do not yet know where they will work.
They're waiting still on that.
So imagine how that would make them feel and they might even wonder.
Does anybody outside of my husband even understand the anxiety
I'm going through?
Are emotions involved?
Absolutely.
Because often isn't it true?
We have more detail about what's going to happen to us
than sometimes even our wives do.
So it is good for us to think about that.
What can help our wives to cope with these feelings
and sometimes the staying balanced
and staying on course with this question hanging over their head?
Well, we'd like to consider our second scriptural example
that of Esther.
Of the women in the Bible,
Esther was one who seemed to have very little say
in how she would spend her life,
but she willingly submitted.
Let's turn to Esther and look at this account together.
In Esther, the second chapter,
we want to learn a little something about Esther first.
Esther, the second chapter, verse seven,
in the B part, in the second part it says,
the young woman was beautifully formed
and attractive in appearance.
And at the death of her father and her mother,
Mordecai took her as his daughter.
So she was a beautiful young woman in Israel.
So no doubt there was no shortage of nice young men
in the nation that would have been interested
and she probably could have had her pick.
But did she get her pick?
No.
She, along with other beautiful young women
in that nation were taken by a pagan king,
a hazard iris.
And look what it says in chapter two, verse 12.
It says, first it says, each young woman had her turn
to go in to king a hazard iris
after completing the 12 month treatment
that was prescribed for the women.
For this was the way they had to fulfill
their beauty treatment,
six months with oil of merer
and six months with balsam oil
and various ointments for beauty treatment.
Verse 14, it says, in the evening she would go in
and in the morning she would return
to the second house of the women.
So of course, instead of her getting to pick a nice young man
that she could raise a family with and serve Jehovah with
and maybe even be someone who could produce the Messiah.
That was gone because now she was with someone
who didn't love Jehovah, a pagan really.
And he already had many wives.
So that's a pretty difficult situation.
Could you go along with that?
Well, Esther did, why?
Well, this is what it says, even Mordecai told her,
don't tell them you're a Jew.
Now that may have gotten her out of that whole arrangement.
Of course, it may have cost her her life too.
But Esther too, verse 20 says this,
Esther did not say anything about her relatives
and her people just as Mordecai had instructed.
Esther continued to do what Mordecai said
just as when she was under his care.
Esther put her personal preferences and comforts aside.
She did just as she was told.
And of course, we know what happened.
Her act of faith, she became queen,
but also what really happened.
Well, the fourth chapter, verse 14,
Mordecai says to her in the latter part,
who knows whether it is for a time like this
that you have attained to your royal status.
Jehovah used her.
She made herself available, her willingly complying,
even in difficult circumstances
that would have tested any Christian sister in our time.
Surely shows that she had a beautiful,
a beautiful spirit.
And do you think she ever looked back
and regretted that decision,
whether or not her cozy little life
that she wished she would have had was lost?
If she did, if so, all she had to do was look around
and see every little boy and little girl
that she saw passed by and realized that she had something.
Her self-sacrifice helped Jehovah
in preserving that young person alive.
So she was a powerful woman of faith
that we can call a good example.
And our sisters are no different.
You aren't simply here at Bethel because of your husbands.
You made a choice, a conscious decision to come to Bethel,
to live a life of self-sacrifice
and devotion through your Bethel service.
And we know that.
You could have said no.
When that young man was interested in you
and he asked you, would you like to get married
and come to Bethel, you could have said no.
He'd have followed you anywhere, right?
Or you sisters who were already married
and you sat down with your husband
and you prayed about it and you talked about it.
Can we make ourselves available
for this avenue of service?
And if you'd have said no, he'd have stuck with you.
But you didn't.
You put your own personal comforts aside to a measure
so that you could have this additional avenue of service.
And you know, we often talk about
telling people what we did in the new system.
When we're in paradise and others ask,
how did you spend your time?
You're not going to say, well, my husband was at Bethel
so I was there.
You're going to say no.
I was at Bethel with my husband.
And we got to serve Jehovah full time
in the most exciting time of the organization's history.
And we've got to see beautiful things
that strengthened our faith
and we got to be a part of that history.
So it is for us.
We feel honored to serve with you sisters
that are with us, our wives.
When Proverbs 31, 31 speaks, we think of you.
It says, give her the reward for what she does
and let her own works praise her in the city gates.
Now that's just one area of change.
What about a second area of change
that's affecting many of us?
And we want to talk about that for just a few minutes.
And that's the change of assignment.
We've been talking about reassignments.
But more specifically, we'd like to talk to you,
brothers and sisters who have been working
as temporary workers.
Some of you have your temporary volunteers
who have poured your heart and soul
into the walk-hill and warwick projects.
And we're thankful for that.
Many of you have seen the project go from a pile of dirt
to a deep hole to beautiful structures.
At both locations, it's been really marvelous
to see the willing workers.
But now the projects are wrapping up.
And the majority of walk-hill work will be done
in just a few months.
And warwick, of course, now we got the news.
Move in date of September 1st.
So that's exciting.
Some may have thought, well, if I just worked hard enough,
if I just stayed long enough, maybe I get to stay afterwards.
And can't blame you for feeling that way.
But of course, it's pretty clear now,
many will be going home.
So of course, that's a change of assignment for you.
You may be wondering what you will do next.
Most likely you're wondering, though,
where are you going to get the same joy?
Where are you going to be able to do the same fulfilling work
that you made yourself available for here?
And that's really commendable.
We'd like you to consider the account of Bezilell.
Now, we've talked a lot about Bezilell.
Of course, during construction, we always do, right?
And if you return to the account in Exodus 31,
let's just look at this together for just a moment.
And speaking about Bezilell, this is what it says about him.
In verse 2 of chapter 31 of Exodus,
it says, see, I have chosen Bezilell,
the son of Eury, the son of her, of the tribe of Judah.
I will fill him with the spirit of God,
giving him wisdom, understanding, and knowledge
of every kind of craftsmanship.
In verse 6 says, moreover to a system,
I have appointed a holiab, the son of a hismac
of the tribe of Dan.
And I am putting wisdom into his heart
and all those who are skillful
so that they may make everything I have commanded you.
Well, that was a powerful, powerful commission
by Jehovah for Bezilell.
He personally would be overseeing the building
of the tabernacle, but not just the tabernacle,
everything that was in it.
The furnishings, the utensils, the arc of the covenant,
the cover of the arc, the tables, the altars,
even the clothing for the priests.
It's really amazing what he, as well as these other skilled
craftsmen have been able to do.
But in a sense, isn't that what Jehovah's spirit
has empowered you to do in your work at Wachill
and Warwick?
You came with skills and you learned others,
like Bezilell, Jehovah's spirit has helped,
and it's been evident.
And no doubt Bezilell was admired and praised
for what he did, just as we admire and praise you
for much of your work.
However, once that tabernacle was inaugurated,
things changed for Bezilell.
When the tabernacle was inaugurated,
Bezilell could no longer enter it.
Leviticus 16 says that only Aaron could come into the most
holy, and only that during the appointed time.
Additionally, in Numbers 3.31,
it says Bezilell could no longer even touch the furnishings
because now the co-affights had the sole responsibility
of moving those utensils.
So now, here's someone who had a personal hand
in doing all of that work for that tabernacle to be built.
But now he couldn't go inside, couldn't touch,
couldn't even look.
How do you think he felt?
Well, the scripture doesn't say,
but likely a man of devotion like him,
the work would have been more important
than just his own personal feelings.
But we know this, what he couldn't do
would only be overshadowed by what he could do.
He had beautiful memories,
imagine telling his children and grandchildren
of what work he did.
Imagine beating other, having them meet others
who worked right alongside him.
Yes, a lasting monument to praise Jehovah.
That's what he was working on.
And that's what you've been working on.
Something to praise Jehovah, to make his name known.
But imagine how thrilled Bezilell's going to be when learn,
when he learns that his faithfulness
and his actions were recorded in God's work for all of us.
What a privilege that will be to.
What's the lesson for us?
Don't judge the quality or appreciation of your work
by whether or not you get to stay.
In our Bible reading this last week,
2 Chronicles 157 was cited.
It says, but you be strong and do not be discouraged
or do not let your hands drop down
for your activity will be rewarded.
And yes, you don't need to be discouraged.
Like Bezilell, you have a lifetime of memories
to share and you can appreciate.
You'll be able to bring your family to facilities
that you've helped build.
You'll be able to point out things that you did.
You'll also have memories that no one can take away from you.
And those will be precious as well.
Maybe some of those bus rides, you'll be able to talk about.
And I know that the audience here,
especially can appreciate those bus rides.
Mechanics hold me once.
So we're working, he was working on the air conditioning
for the bus in the middle of the night.
He says, you do not want a hot bus full of 60 hot workers
stuck in Midtown Manhattan traffic coming home.
And but think of those memories.
Think of the things that went right.
Think of the things that maybe had a little glitch.
Those are memories you have and every time you get together
with someone who you served with,
you're gonna talk about that.
And what was the biggest frustration that you had
is now going to be something you laugh about
and talk about for an eternity.
Now memories that can never ever be taken away from you.
So remember, this is not your last assignment.
We don't retire from Jehovah's service.
We don't have a rocking chair somewhere on a porch
and now we're just gonna rock ourselves into the sunset.
We have work to do and Jehovah wants you to be part of it.
So it is, it's just like if you have to leave Bethel,
one of the things that someone has said before is
the best way to leave Bethel is to take it with you
when you go, take your memories with you,
build enthusiasm and appreciation for others in Bethel.
Take your friendships and never stop volunteering
for any assignment the organization needs.
They need us, they need you to do that work.
Finally, the third and last change we wanna talk about
has to do with changing circumstances personally
for many in our family.
Many of our older members of the family have served for decades.
They have witnessed an exciting growth in the history
of Jehovah's people.
Maybe when Brooklyn was the only buildings at Bethel,
then kingdom farm, mountain farm, walk hill,
Patterson, tremendous expansion and now warwick.
Many of our older ones at Bethel have experienced all of that.
They have seen all of that come.
What a beautiful privilege that they've had.
But maybe and some have been told that they won't be going
with their department to walk hill or even warwick
in some cases.
So that can be pretty disappointing.
That can stir some pretty deep seated emotions.
They might feel as a psalmist did in Psalm 71.9
where he said, do not cast me off in my old age,
do not abandon me when my strength fails.
But we must remember that our changing circumstances
whoever we are, wherever we serve,
has nothing to do with how Jehovah views us.
So it doesn't change our desire to be used by him as well.
This last week, Brother Larson mentioned Isaiah the 46 chapter
and it's an appropriate scripture for us to consider
when talking about this particular subject as well.
Isaiah 46 in verse four.
It says, until you grow old, I will be the same.
Until your hair is gray, I will keep bearing you.
As I have done, I will carry you and bear you and rescue you.
Jehovah's always done that for us.
And for you older members of the family
with many decades of faithful service,
you've shown us how to let Jehovah do that
so that you can get the work done.
It's that same unchangeable God
that helps us continue to be stabilized.
It grounds us and it guards our heart
so that we know that Jehovah loves us
and cherishes us personally.
When our hair is gray, our strength is gone,
Jehovah carries us.
So we know you brothers and sisters did not come to Bethel
with the idea that one day you would retire.
You have worked hard.
You didn't plan for that day,
but Jehovah doesn't view it that way.
We think about Daniel in the 10th chapter.
Jehovah described Daniel as a very precious man.
He was likely around 100 years of age and yet
he was still very precious in Jehovah's eyes,
even as you are.
So it's important to remember that just because we cannot do
once what we once did does not mean
we cannot do anything at all.
And we'd like to consider finally the example
of the Apostle John to help us maybe get a perspective
on this.
Now of course, John was used mightily by Jehovah.
He was a man of action of faith, Jesus called he
and his brother, the sons of thunder.
So they were people who were full of action.
John 21 seven also says he was described
as the disciple whom Jesus loved.
He sat directly next to Jesus at mealtimes.
He was a very special friend.
Maybe even Jesus shared things with him
that he didn't with the other disciples around him.
He was one of the few to witness the transfiguration.
He was one of the three that accompanied Jesus
into the house of Jeris
to witness the resurrection of his daughter.
So he even had the honor of caring for Jesus' mother
after his death.
Still after Jesus ascension to heaven,
when all of this activity was going on,
what did John do?
Well, he preached.
He was a faithful member of the congregation.
He was with Peter when some of the most fiery speeches
were given, miracles were performed.
When they stood up to say,
we will obey God as ruler rather than men.
All those things show that John was a man of faith
and but a long time went by
when we catch up with John later in life.
In the meantime, so much else had happened.
Many had written their own gospels, right?
Matthew had written it some eight years after Jesus' death.
15 to 17 years later, Luke wrote his,
a few years after that, Mark wrote his, but not John,
still hadn't written his.
63 years later, where do we find John?
Well, apparently where most Christians were back then,
preaching or in prison.
So look at what it says, Revelation 1.9,
Revelation 1.9.
Now imagine he's old.
He's well into his nineties.
He's the last of the apostles to be alive.
Revelation 1.9 says,
I, John your brother,
and I share with you in the tribulation and kingdom
and endurance in association with Jesus
was on the island called Patmos for speaking about God
and bearing witness concerning Jesus.
John was old, but he was active.
His faith was intact and he found himself
in prison, but that's not even fully the point.
You see, John was yet to receive,
was just about to receive or had just received,
what was arguably the greatest privilege he would ever have.
Yes, because Jehovah caused him to see a thrilling vision
of the future and brings it all the way down
to the time of the end and the conclusion
of this system of things.
He got to pen the vision of Revelation.
And then after that, he got to write his gospel
and three other books with his name.
Do you think he was worthless?
No, he was at an all-time peak.
His value was the best ever, but isn't it amazing?
We think sometimes that maybe there's nothing left
for us to do, but that's not how Jehovah sees it.
We've got a grand privilege for John
to cap some 70 years of faithful service.
What's the lesson?
We never lose our value to Jehovah or his organization
as long as we remain faithful.
And it's true that for our older ones here at Bethel,
you've taught us as young ones coming into Bethel.
What it means to work for Jehovah,
what it means to really put yourself out for that.
The example I always think of is when it snows outside
in Brooklyn, and we have a nice arrangement.
The transportation office will go out.
They'll actually see if the roads can be traveled.
They'll call the Bethel office.
Bethel office will call the branch committee.
We'll put an announcement together.
It's too snowy to go out.
You know what we spend the most time on?
Trying to figure out how to tell the senior members
of the family, it's okay not to go to work.
You would think we're trying to make them renounce their faith.
And don't let those sidewalks dry up before noon
because they'll be out there.
They'll be going to work.
Yes, you have taught us how to be
really devoted servants of Jehovah.
And you will continue to do that.
Your example is one that comes like a tree that has maturity.
It's so much more valuable than just a sapling
that is waiting to produce fruitage.
So it is that we know you're like big trees
of righteousness to Jehovah.
So these are areas that all of us face
these we haven't covered them all.
It's just a few we've considered tonight.
But we recognize that change is a fact of life
and we're all affected by it.
It's going to continue.
We expect it to.
But we've all learned that the one thing
that doesn't change is Jehovah.
He's the one who will keep us.
He's the one who will ground us
and he is our refuge and our strength.
And our Bible examples today.
Do we have one that can help us?
Bezile and Esther in the Apostle John
and their faithful examples.
When we go back to our illustration of sailing,
rarely is a boat able to get somewhere sailing
in a direct line.
Now sometimes you'll have great weather
and that can happen.
But when sailing into the wind,
a sailor needs to employ what they call tacking.
And the organization has used that
in talking about maneuvering and changes.
But in short, it means that they steer upwind
in a zigzag fashion
so that they get the wind hitting both sides of the sail
and it pushes them forward
in spite of riding into the wind.
For us, we have the advantage Jesus is at the helm.
He knows exactly where he wants us to be going.
We're not alone in going through changes at Bethel either.
First Corinthians 1225 tells us
there should be no division in the body.
But its members should have mutual concern for one another.
So our concern for others should help us
to not just think about ourselves.
We have many who are changing assignments
even now, temporary workers who are leaving.
Bethel family members being reassigned
and others who will be moving very soon.
These are changes and they affect us.
But Jehovah is that same person.
Even as we read in the 46th Psalm,
the one who can be with us no matter what.
Bigger, more exciting changes.
I appreciate Brother Let's saying that even
in his watchtower study today,
Armageddon is coming.
Is it getting bigger than that?
Wickedness will be a thing of the past.
Paradise will be real.
And here the resurrection will happen.
An old age and death will be a thing of the past.
These are changes we can believe in and we can look forward to.
When we think about that,
whatever changes come our way,
we can be confident that we will not just go through them,
but we can actually embrace them.
We can even grow from them.
We can even make sure we're moving ahead with them.
We can be sure that our unchanging God Jehovah
will stick by us and he's our rewarder everlastingly.